Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.
The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.
Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one
Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6
In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.
A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.
It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.
A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.
Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.
Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million
Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.
People who are allergic to cats are actually allergic to cat saliva or to cat dander. If the resident cat is bathed regularly the allergic people tolerate it better.
The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.
Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).
In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.
Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.
Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million
The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).
Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.
In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.
Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""
Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.
In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.
The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.
Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.
Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.
Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.
The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).
Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.
Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.
Cats have 3 eyelids.
Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.
If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.
Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.
There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.
Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more
Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.
A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.
The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!
Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6
Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.
Cats walk on their toes.
Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.
Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.
The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.
The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.
Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6
Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"
The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.
Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.
A form of AIDS exists in cats.
Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.
A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.
Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.
Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.
Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.
A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.
The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).
The cat's front paw has 5 toes, but the back paws have 4. Some cats are born with as many as 7 front toes and extra back toes (polydactl).
On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.
You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.
A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.
Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.
Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.
Cats have 3 eyelids.
In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.
Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.
Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.
A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.
70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.
Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.
Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.
Cats have supersonic hearing
Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.
Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.
An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.
Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.
Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.
Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.
Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.
A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.
The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.
The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.
A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints
A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.
During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.
All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.
Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.
Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.
Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.
The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.
There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.
A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).
Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.
There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.
A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.
A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.
A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.
Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.
Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.
In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.
Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.
Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.
The chlorine in fresh tap water irritates sensitive parts of the cat's nose. Let tap water sit for 24 hours before giving it to a cat.
Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.
A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.
In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.
Female felines are \superfecund
Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.
Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.
In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).
When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as 'hers' with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head, it is a sign of acceptance and affection.
Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.
Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.
In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.
All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.
The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).
In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.
The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.
It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.
A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.
Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another
